# MSP 101

Current status including state variables sent by drone to client,  and used internally to allow
DNN to make navigation decisions.

# Members

## cycletime

Frequency of consecutive executions of microprocessor/flight controller PID algorithm.

For example if queues.thread_wait_time is set to 500,  and cycletime returns as 10, it indicates
that there has been 10 executions of the PID algorithm in the last execution.

## i2c_errors_count

Running count of any, and all errors that have occurred by any handler during the active
state of the drone. This includes errors caused by temporarily disconnecting client software either
deliberately, or by unforeseen circumstances. 

## pid_kd

For PID algorithm that can be represented as:

$\large{ u(t)=(K_pe(t)) + (K_i \int_0^t e(\tau)d\tau) + (K_d \frac{de(t)}{dt})}$

i2c_error_count represents the integral portion of the equation. Or the summation of:

$\large{K_i \int_0^t e(\tau)d\tau}$

or the "I" proportion of the equation. As this equation is executed "cycletime"s for each given
[MSP104](msp101.md) or for each waypoint specified within [MSP8](msp8.md) command, the instantaneous
error.

For each axis point of the gyroscope,  which is 

* roll
* pitch
* yaw
* altitude, and
* throttle

the PID algorithm is applied, the resultant is an array expressed as the mean of values:
[r, p, y, a, t] where:

- r is roll
- p is pitch
- y is yaw
- a is altitude
- t is throttle

and x is the iteration of each of these members, and N is count of elements, or in this case 5.

$\large{\upsilon = \sum \frac{x_i}{N}}$

variance is then calculated using:

$\large{\sigma^2 = \frac{\sum(x_i - \upsilon)^2}{N}}$

this is returned as the following list:

[ $\large{\upsilon}$ , $\large{\sigma^2}$ ]

if variance is growing then the coefficients that are in the manifest may need to be adjusted (tuned).
These are represented in the manifest as:

* fc.Kp
* fc.Ki
* fc.Kd

## sensor

Displays which sensors are available to the drone represented as a bit-mask. Sensors are as follows

| Sensor   | bitmask value     | description   |
|----------|-------------------|---------------|
| BARO     | 0b000000000000001 | Barometer     |
| MAG      | 0b000000000000010 | magnetometer  |
| GPS      | 0b000000000000100 | GPS           |
| SONAR    | 0b000000000001000 | ultra sonic   |
| CAMERA   | 0b000000000010000 | camera        |
| GRYO     | 0b000000000100000 | Gyroscope     |

Sensor flags are Or'd together for instance:

0b000000000100100 represents that Gyroscope and GPS is available.

## flag 

Indicates current mode and status of the drone. This is done by Or'ing RRP_STATUS and CMODE.

### RRP_STATUS

| RRP_STATUS    | Bitmap     | Description                                                 |
|---------------|------------|-------------------------------------------------------------|
| INITILIZING   | 0b0000001  | At least one handler is initializing                        |
| ACTIVE        | 0b0000010  | All handlers have initialized without error, drone is armed |
| ERROR         | 0b0000100  | At least one handler is experienced an error                |
| RELOADING     | 0b0001000  | Handler that has experienced error is reloading.            |
| SHUTTING_DOWN | 0b0010000  | Drone is powering down                                      |
| TERMINATED    | 0b0100000  | Handler has been terminated                                 |

### CMODES 

- see [MSP1](msp1.md)